Hello, everybody. Welcome to a new episode of the
Center. I'm your host, Ricardo Lobs. And today I'm
joined by Edgar Dubourg. He is a phd candidate
in Cognitive Science at the Department of the Cognitive
that they are called No Super. Uh IN France,
he uses uh insights from both the natural sciences
and the humanities and both computational and experimental methods
to explain the psychological foundations and cultural evolution of
fictions. And that's what we're going to talk about
today. So, Edgar, welcome to the show. It's a
big pleasure to everyone.
Thank you. Uh It's a real pleasure to be
here. Thank you for the invitation. Really
great. So let's start perhaps with this because I
know that you try to tackle fiction from several
different perspectives and frameworks. And one of them, I
guess is an evolutionary perspective. So do we know
how old fiction is in human societies?
Um Yes, it's uh uh I actually, no, I
think we don't quite know, but it's a really
great question to, to begin with. And uh uh
maybe it's uh it, it would be good to
start by noting why uh this is uh this
question matters. A lot. Uh, I think part of
your question is, is like, uh, about, uh, whether
to, to know whether fission is part of our
nature or biology or if, uh, if it is
a species typical trait and it's a fair question
because we, we, uh, in all societies where you
have, uh, fiction movies or TV, series, man, uh,
uh, literary works or oral stories, it seems that
people enjoy them a lot. So, so how can
we know if uh if it is a, a
specialty trait or universal trait? Uh Well, as you
said, uh uh often for other cognitive or V
traits, uh we, um we look at the history
of the traits and try to evaluate when it
emerged because if it, uh if it is here
for a long time, if, if we, if, if
it is here in humans, uh for instance, uh
since humans emerged like 3000, uh 100,000 years ago,
approximately, then we know, uh at least it's first
evidence that it is a species of typical trait.
So, and also we could also examine uh whether
fiction is uh appears in different societies worldwide or
if it is present even in nonhuman animals for
instance. But uh uh first, uh it seems that
uh to, to evaluate this, uh we need a
good definition of fiction and this is where it's,
it can get tricky, I think uh you, you
need a good definition of any trait. To be
able to quantify its presence in, be it in
different periods as you asked, uh different societies or
even in different species. Uh And here, I think
it's a problem because with the definition, the definition
of fiction, I think is not cons and uh
it's, it might be controversial across sees at least.
Um And I, in my view, it has not
been uh like properly naturalized in a way that
would allow us to, to do such cross cultural
or temporal or cross species analysis. So there, I
think maybe we can start to write right in
the, in the, in the, in this question, which
is the uh I think we can differentiate uh
between three broad definition of fiction and maybe at
least, maybe there are more. Um II, I have
not worked this through as a, as a anybody.
Uh And so this is highly speculative, but let's
group them and make the whole definition of fiction
would be the ability, the cognitive ability to uh
to, to make fiction in one's mind. So some
biologists or cognitive might call simulation uh or imagination.
Uh So the definition of fiction here has the
capacity to simulate things in, in our head. Um
I think it is present actually in uh many
non human animals. Uh TAKE for instance, a square
when it wants to make a jump from one
tree to another, it simulates uh the jump just
before in order to uh to, to evaluate in
advance, uh the first ability of the action, the
probability it will, it will have to, to fulfill
the goal it has. So this is really, really
adaptive. Uh And here for a long time, I
think, um because it allows to, to, to get
the benefits of, uh, of trial and error without,
uh without uh possibly failing. So it's really, uh
it's really uh beneficial. Um So it seems that
we don't want to call the simulation of a
German by a squirrel a fiction. So this is
where I think it's not the right definition. Um
Because uh well, it's not what we want to,
to study here. So it seems that fiction is
not just about the simulation of things that don't,
that don't exist because it's not. So uh another
broad definition is about um uh still a bit
narrow, but still broad is about artistic representation. So
here, fiction would be uh a, a kind of
representation of an individual uh that other individuals from
the same species find active. Uh And here again,
it's not uh specific to humans. Uh I have
the, I have the example of the p fishes.
I don't know if you know that they draw
uh like beautiful patterns on the, on the ocean
floor, on the sound, uh the circles and uh
they are specific specifically made uh because they are
attractive here to the opposite sex. Uh So what's
important here is that they do that because uh
it's attractive. Um And they are really beautiful. I
uh I encourage people who don't know about that
with good look on the internet because it's a
fascinating event for us humans. So it's, it's funny.
No, no, I actually watch that on youtube videos
and it's really fascinating. So, yeah, if people are
interested, you can find videos like that on youtube.
And also the, I don't know if you know
the book of uh uh Richard Pro and uh
the Evolution of Beauty, which is really about uh
about all that beauty in animals. And I recommend
it to all the people who listen and who
are interested in this question. So if this is
fiction, if uh those drawings on the, on the
ocean floor are fiction in a sense. Uh THEN
uh the first fiction in humans would be uh
maybe the, the c paintings around 60,000 years ago
uh or maybe more likely other productions that I
don't know about that humans are made and that
were uh made because they were attractive to other
people in the, in the species. So, I don't
know. Uh I really, I'm not an expert in
uh archaeology or relationship. So I don't, I don't
even know, but there might be productions even from
the beginning. But I, in fact, I would suggest
to serve uh definition which is uh more strict
uh and which will require uh uh crafting uh
uh representation while explicitly uh uh signaling to the
individuals that it is not a real uh representation.
Uh So, for such a fiction to exist, uh
you need some sort of uh pragmatic sense uh
as discussed in a recent paper in uh in
be senses by uh Ancient Scott Phillips. Uh So,
it seems that humans are ended with such cognitive
mechanisms that allow a shared understanding. Um And therefore
that law uh for craters of fiction to make
sure that uh what they create is recognized as
uh A K A representation. Mhm um So according
to the definition, actually, it would be hard to,
to date the first fiction. So the first written
fiction, fictional story that seems overtly fictional is um
sometimes uh sometimes we say it's uh the uh
but oral stories predate, of course, uh any written
story. Um And we would also have to quantify,
in fact, the extent to which at the moment
they were released, they were considered that they were
crafted uh with the intention to be rightly received
as false information. So this is uh how to
quantify anything but uh really uh really fascinating. Mhm
So,
so let me ask you perhaps two or three
questions about all of what you said there. So
first of all, when it comes to those uh
three definitions in your own work, do you operate
with uh a specific one? I and do you
choose one of the three or is that something
that you don't really do? I mean, you study
fiction but in terms of the specific definition behind
it, uh, it's not really that important for the
kind of work you do. Which one is the
correct one?
Yeah, it's a great question. I think we, uh,
the, the, the more specific, the definition, the, the
better, uh, for any kind of work. But, uh,
uh, here I, uh, I think I tend to,
to work with the so definition, which was uh
not the broadest, but uh still a bit broad
uh because I, I like to study entertainment. So
anything that appeal to women's mind, uh even if
people don't uh don't, don't realize, don't understand that
it is uh uh fictional uh in a, in
a stricter sense. Uh But actually, I am currently
working on a, on a project that would uh
uh try to evaluate uh the uh evolution of
fictional in a stricter sense. That is the evolution
of uh of the, of the extent to which
people uh uh receive in uh rightly receive information
uh as uh rightly receive the fiction as false
information. And this is a good uh approximation of
entertainment actually, because if we, if we consume works
that we know are completely false, it means that
I think that uh that we want to be
entertained. So we have to juggle between definition according
to the project that, that we have, I think.
Mhm uh AND of course, when it comes to
the evolutionary foundations of our psychology, in particular cognitive
mechanisms, and here we are talking about fiction. So
I would imagine that it involves several different cognitive
mechanisms. And we're going to get into that in
a second. But one of the sources, you people
many times point to when they have access to
it for, to establish that a particular cognitive mechanism
or a particular behavior or feature of our psychology
as an evolutionary foundation or is an evolved rate
is of course looking into other closely related or
sometimes not so closely related animal models. And you
mentioned there uh different examples like for example, the
squirrel imagining, if it jumps in a particular way,
if it will reach the other branch or the
other three or something like that. But, but I
was wondering um when you talk about that specific
case, for example, is that really fiction or are
you pointing to perhaps some evolutionary precursors to the
cogni mechanisms that play a role in fiction? Because
even if other animals also have imagination, I mean,
imagination just by itself is not exactly the same
as fiction. So, or, or are you really claiming
that perhaps there are other animals who have fiction
like uh uh cognitive traits? Let's say, how do
you reply to that?
Iii I really agree with the first uh proposition
I make a comparison with animal to show that
uh uh uh other animals have the cog the,
the, the cognitive mechanisms necessary. Uh Some animals have
some of the uh required mechanisms to make fiction.
Uh So it's kind of PURs, as you said,
uh, fiction but it's not, uh, I, I really
think it's not fiction. Uh, I think, uh, simulation
and, uh Osten communication uh, are all adaptations that
are used uh by producers and consumers of fiction
to be able to share, uh, fictional stories. Yeah.
Mhm
uh So, uh I mean, we again, we'll get
into the specific cognitive mechanisms, but then fiction itself
wouldn't be uh a psychological trait. I mean, it
would be like the result or a by-product of
specific evolved psychological adaptations. Is that how you look
at it or is it by itself uh an
adaptation
that it's a and it's a, it's a great
question and I think it's uh still uh quite
uh controversial. Uh I don't know really where people
stand on this question. But uh in fact, as
you said, there is an adaptation is due uh
with people who say that fiction evolved uh as
an adaptation. Uh So it would mean that fiction
uh would have brought fitness benefits during, during our
revolutionary history. What uh yeah, you're referring to. So
it would uh it would mean to say that
uh uh people who were interested in fiction reproduced
more during the revolutionary history and therefore after generations,
uh this trait of reducing, consuming fiction would have
spread in the, in the population and here people,
uh In fact, we don't all agree about the,
uh the, the, the possible uh function, uh adaptive
function that it might fulfill if it were the
case. Um And the opposite side that you mentioned
is a by product one and it is uh
kind of simpler. It's, uh it's a fiction would
have no evolved function uh because it would be
uh like a by product or side effect of
other psychological trait uh that emerged uh even before
uh fiction uh appeared in humans, actually, uh it
emerged maybe before humans even emerged. And the view
had been, has been put forward by your student
in care. And also uh the cosine and John
to when they, they wrote that many features of
fiction uh seem to take advantage of uh of
design, feature, features, design features of the mind that
uh were not targets of section because they caused
enjoyment of fiction, but because they solved other uh
allergic problems. But uh I think there is a
uh a third uh path, a third possibility uh
which, which is where that section is neither uh
uh natation per se, neither uh by product. Uh
uh BECAUSE it's created by human minds, as you
said, it's a, it's a result of uh human
cognition. And I believe, I believe we need uh
to understand why uh our psychology motivates us to
produce and consume fiction, even if such behaviors are
not adaptation process that might be adaptive. Um And
this is where this is where um the work
of uh Nicola Boma, my supervisor, also Robert Stre
and Baskar Boe. Uh AND particularly one paper that
they wrote together uh about symbolic culture is uh
according to me, really important because it kind of
offers this sort of solution, which is we can
focus on the adaptive goals that such productions may
indirectly fulfill. And they also show that we need
to take into consideration the fitness uh benefits and
costs of uh the producers and the consumers of
s culture separately and try to understand what, what
would be the, the evolutionary advantage to, to, to
produce or consume fiction. And in these scenarios, I
thought we could compare a fiction uh to uh
for instance, uh a computer or a smartphone or
a kayak to, to, to take a an earlier
exa MP. This is some kind of technology that's
something uh something that humans create uh to fulfill
some instrumental goals that would ultimately help, help them
to fulfill uh goals. And in this, in this
uh in this uh specific uh uh example of
fiction, we would say that it's a, a kind
of entertainment technology with uh that's what we call
them with a new collar.
Mhm No. Thi this actually reminds me quite a
lot of the ongoing debate in the cognitive science
of religion as to whether religion is itself an
adaptation a by product of specific other specific adaptations,
just a result of genetic drift or the result
of cultural evolution. Because there's also that and I
know that you are also interested in the cultural
foundations of fiction and we'll get into that later.
But uh one more question about what you said
earlier. So of course, another kind of source that
people many times point to when talking about the
evolutionary foundations of specific psychological traits is looking at
ancient societies, ancient human societies. But in this particular
case of fiction, I mean, I guess that there's
a lot of guess work and speculation and speculation
that we have to, I mean, just deal with
because uh most of what we would classify as
fiction, I mean, of course, we only have access
to the material remains. I mean, what archaeologists basically
work with. And also there are many things that
are pro we lost forever because fiction also expresses
itself in oral traditions, right? And that's something that
just can't fossilize or be, uh, I mean, in
some sort of way, uh be preserved materially.
Yeah, I, I agree that's a really difficult, uh,
that's, uh that's one reason why I don't work
that much on, uh on, uh on ancient, very
ancient uh uh fictional works because uh I'm not,
uh uh ii, I don't know what uh what
we might miss or what we are, what we
don't know about, uh how we, how these fictional
stories were shared and, and I'm actually, I'm actually
very happy to, to work on contemporary fiction. So
uh so I, I have not so much to
say about uh about that actually.
No, that, that's, that's totally fair. So, uh but
when it comes to the cognitive mechanisms that you
associate with fiction, you and of course, other people
that work on this, what do we know about
its psychological foundation? So in terms of the specific
cognitive mechanisms that play a role in fiction?
Mhm um We already uh talked about some of
them, uh some of the skills that are the
cognitive skills that are necessary to make fiction like
simulation Osten communication. Um But I really think that
these are not the only psychological mechanisms that we
need to, to some fiction. Uh WHEN uh when
uh a character of fiction uh create a fiction,
um they can use the full spectrum of human
preferences. Uh And actually, they are limited only by
uh their own psychology in fact. So it means
that uh so it's, it's where it can get
complex. Uh It means that to understand fiction, you
need to understand everything that is attractive to the
human mind and to understand that you need uh
uh to consider all possible uh factors of psychological
factors of attraction uh to uh to take uh
uh a term by Dennis Barber. So it's uh
it's uh the program, for instance, if you, if
you want to understand love stories, you need to
understand the specificities and the variability of, of romantic
club, which is a, a specific psychological uh uh
mechanisms that are evolved in humans for par uh
strategy for problem as a paing strategy. And you
can make link between our psychology of psychology of
love. And uh uh the follow of stories, which
is when singer managed supervisor Nicole is working on
actually uh to understand why we, we have horror
stories in the form of our movies or literature,
etc. We need a good understanding of the fear
system, which is another, another psychological foundation of fiction
I think. Uh uh And you need a good
understanding of the relating mechanisms like uh predator and
aggressor detectors uh which evolved in humans for her
to, to, to avoid uh don't, potentially, don't use
animals in specs. And here there are people at
the uh recreational C lab like Ma Kin and
Coltan Schriner who work on just that. And I,
I myself worked on the how exploratory performances might
explain uh the app for images and we might
talk about that a bit later. Um And we
could go on, go on and on and list
uh uh uh a long list of psychological mechanisms
that can be and, and I, I think usually
are activated by fictional stories while we consume them.
So, uh and, and I, we tried uh to
list them in the collaborative paper that uh that
I've been working on for the past uh for,
since the beginning of my uh phd basically uh
and become a, a highly collaborative paper that uh
that is currently under review. But I think we
will uh will preprint it and it's, it's just
that we try to list those the psychological mechanisms
that are the foundation of fiction and which uh
combined might explain uh uh the di the, the
great diversity of fictional stories. Because we, uh as
I started to list, we have a lot of
different stories out there. And uh we need uh
all of the, all of our understanding of psychology,
of human psychology to understand, I think uh uh
uh fiction stories.
Mhm. Yeah, we'll come back to some of what
you said there when we talk about different kinds
of fiction because there are of course different genres
here. So, but uh we've already touched a little
bit on the functions that fictions might serve when
we talked about the possibility of them or fiction
in general being an a, an evolved adaptation. But
what do we know about its function actually? And
of course, here, I'm not necessarily pointing to an
adaptation is perspective because it might serve certain functions
that do not necessarily translate into fitness benefits or
increased fitness. So, but what do we know about
that?
Um, WELL, we know what, what, what uh the,
the, the, the way I tend to see it
is that as I said it's, uh, it's like
it's kind of a technology that, uh, that pulls
off craft because uh they get uh attention from,
uh from the audience um and capturing the attention
of people, uh might not be relative goals per
se, but it's a, it's a good instrumental goal
to fulfill their relative goals. Um For instance, uh
it can allow you to uh appear as a
good coperative partner for, for instance, it can enhance
uh how you appear competent to other people because
you're, you're good, you're a skilled uh storyteller. Um
From here, I took at the producers item. You
can accumulate resources through exchange of services. Um You
can transmit uh uh relevant uh fitness, relevant information
to your team, uh which is again a good
goal. Um And I, I think, uh in fact,
uh uh different researchers have worked on each of
these aspects, uh which are some kind of function
that we might, we might call instrumental function or,
uh but not adaptive function, as you said. So
there are a lot of them potentially, uh like
uh a smartphone. Again, uh smartphone can be used
in a lot of ways, have a lot of
functions. And uh and we use, uh we use
it actually to communicate uh to uh to uh
to orient ourselves to uh uh to play. Uh
So it's uh it's hard to, to pinpoint one
and I think it's good to, to evaluate uh
a bunch of them uh that can be relevant
to explain its uh its success.
Uh Actually you mentioned something there that I guess
a also applies to art in general or at
least the researchers who come from an evolutionary perspective
apply that to art. That is that um there
are at least some features or specific kinds of
information that many times you find in fiction that
from an evolutionary perspective uh basically help communicate fitness,
relevant information, right? I mean, things related to survival,
reproduction and so on, we find lots of those
things in fiction as well,
right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I, I do think
so in the studies are showing that MP that
you find any information about uh what to eat
and what not to eat, where to go and
where not to go uh in a, in a,
in an target cities. Uh Again, since I'm uh
actually more interested in contemporary fiction, I think we
have less uh and that this is something really
interesting. In fact, we have less and less uh
uh relevant information, the more fictional the stories are.
Um SO I, I would tend to say that
it's uh uh against uh non function that is
something that you can do. When you, when you
capture other people's attention, you can transmit them uh
v uh you can transmit them uh very important
uh uh fitness, relevant information. But this is not,
I think the only uh function uh, uh, fiction
fulfilled. And I'm really more of broad, uh, I
think there a broad range of, uh, of possible
things you can do once, once you get the
attention of, of an, uh, an audience. Yeah. Mhm.
By the, by the way, when it comes to
the kinds of, uh, social signaling that fiction allows,
uh, I mean, do you have any idea or
is there anyone out there that suggests that fiction
might have been the product of sexual selection? I
mean, is that something that perhaps uh people of
the opposite sex or, uh by communicating something fictionally,
you might be si signaling uh some psychological traits
that are appealing to people of the opposite sex.
Is there anyone out there that suggests that or?
Yeah. Yeah, it's, it's, it has been one hypothesis
still is uh so Filar who was first started
to, to, to, to, to, to oppose this hypothesis
that uh fiction can be used to uh to
seduce the opposite sex. And actually there have been
studies and there are still studies about, uh um
about the, the way uh producers of fiction are
uh more appealing to the opposite sex for instance.
And it seems to be uh to be sometimes
the case uh and um to this uh uh
point in that direction. But then again, I would
suggest that it is just uh uh one possible
function among uh among broader function. And here you,
you talked about uh social uh, function more generally,
I think they are, they are more, uh, more
generally, uh uh broader social functions other than just
uh seducing a poten poten potential made. Um, YEAH.
Yeah, I mean, one of them that we just
talked about previously was the fact that you can
transmit relevant information. I mean, fitness, relevant or non
fitness, relevant information to, to other people. And also
the other traits that you mentioned previously that you
can signal to other people that might make them
more uh open to cooperating with you, for example,
right? I mean, it's not, uh of course, it
doesn't, it's not reducible to sexual selection. If that's
right,
you can uh uh I think you can uh
consider to, to, to, to, I like to, to
talk about some uh specific uh uh cases uh
just anecdotal evidence. But uh where you see that
reputation is important in fiction sharing, uh you can
consider papers for instance, that uh that there's a
difference in uh in satisfaction derived from creative pollution
uh that are produced either by humans or by
uh artificial intelligence. And if we feel such predictions
uh are different, uh which is what uh seems
to appear in the literature. Uh It seems that
the person behind uh the work is actually uh
important uh important uh enough for people. Uh uh
Not considering that it's the same thing if it's
a real human behind it or not. So I
think it's a good point to, to see that
uh the people behind it. And also, for instance,
there are another anecdotal evidence but I don't know,
study about that. But uh the fact that when
uh people don't know the person that uh created
the fiction uh or the piece of art, for
instance, in uh in art or, I don't know
if you know uh interaction which is the person
we don't know. Uh WE don't know, it's a
true uh her identity so that punk in music
and people talk a lot about these people. Uh
And uh and are really intrigued by any piece
of information that by giving their identity. And I
think it's really uh peculiar. We could just, uh
we could just consume the work. But now we
have, we have to talk about the person behind
them and not knowing we, who, who they are
is really something that bother that seems to bother
people. So it's all that to, to show that
I think it's uh it seems to be at
least uh important to people, for people to uh
to use the production of uh the, the, the
fiction here to infer uh specific uh traits, uh
specific psychological traits and, and uh related to cooper
operation, I think to other people like their reliability,
their authenticity, uh their sy uh or, or alternatively,
there was a way around uh to use the
production but to use the what, what we know
about the people to infer uh to make inferences
about the production. So all that is related to
uh to social dynamics that are not vegetable, to
just uh uh romantic or sexual selection. Mhm.
So, I think that we've already ended up talking
about these hypotheses here that I'm about to mention.
Or at least we refer to some of uh
the things that people mention in this hypothesis. But
uh just for the sake of addressing them directly,
uh could you tell us what the info uh
the entertainment hypothesis and the information hypotheses are here.
Um So it's just uh names to try to
categorize uh the different hypotheses that are out there.
Uh That's uh as, as we, as we said
earlier and as we discussed it with the, the
start the beginning of the discussion, there are many
hypotheses about uh what feature stories might be good
for. Uh And I feel that it would, it
would help to organize such hypothesis in two, you
know, in not for, not necessarily two. But uh
here I have in mind two broad uh uh
group of the groups of hypotheses. Um The one
that proposes that people can use fiction to learn
relevant information. And here it would be uh through
either simulation or communication or the more straightforward communication.
Is it about the social world, uh predators, uh
our own uh emotion, emotional responses to specific situations
about the environments about what, what we eat or
not to eat, etcetera. So we have a lot
of things that we might learn from fiction. Uh
And there is the other side, uh I think,
which is the entertainment uh hypothesis more broadly, which
bring together all the ideas where um which bring
together all the people who, who think that fiction
are kind of uh by definition, less informative than
factual narratives. Uh So that would be, there would
be less relevant uh to, to bring information to,
to capture information compared to reality. They would have
uh uh by definition of uh uh uh how
do you say uh um a negative aspect which
is a fake. Uh But they get the benefit
of uh of freedom. Uh I think this is
how I see it. Uh If you, if you
allow yourself to create uh any story without the
constraints of reality, or at least with uh less
constraints from reality, you can exaggerate what you want
so that the things that you're telling uh are
more interesting to, to your audience. Uh And you
can therefore craft what uh people have called in
general literature of Super, um which are things that
are always appealing to human minds, but that are
exaggerated in a certain direction that makes it very
appealing to human minds. And I think the more
uh fictional the story is uh the more obvious
it is that uh it's less relevant to, to
gather information that we need another explanation as to
why we, we consume them. Uh FOR instance, I
think, uh of science, science fiction, a science fiction
writer is likely to trade the credibility of the
uh, of the information they deliver uh for its
potential in terms of pleasure they, they provide to
the audience in terms of entertainment that in fact,
uh uh the invention and the exaggeration of uh
already apply.
Mhm. Yeah. It, it reminds me the entertainment hypothesis
and what you mentioned there about it reminds me
of Steven Pinker calling uh art uh mental cheesecake.
Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. That's exactly that, that's
the beginning of this. Uh I think uh Steven
Pinker uh uh ideas on this subject are at
the beginning of this uh of this uh of
this hypothesis. Yeah.
Mhm So we've been talking a lot about the
evolutionary foundations of fiction here and of course, uh
we have uh ultimate explanations but then we also
have proximate explanations and pro proximate mechanisms. So do
we know what are the proximate mechanisms that play
a role in fiction?
Um uh Well, approximately uh I think it's uh
uh do, do, do dopamine system uh in the
brain, a t least uh that is, that seems
relevant because it's uh it's relevant for more generally
in the, in the human mind. Uh As you
said, uh we can also uh again, uh mention
Pinker who called uh features uh fiction, uh pleasure,
uh pleasure buttons. Uh So it's uh this proximal
mechanism that can be activated to, to provide pleasure
to the, to, to, to the other individuals. Uh
And uh as we have said, we have a
lot of approximate mechanisms that have evolved for specific,
for specific reasons unrelated to fiction. I think that
can be uh pushed that can be activated, triggered
uh by your fictional stories. Uh Uh We, we
already uh talked about uh fear. Uh We talked
about Cloud about uh curiosity of it. Uh We
have uh uh in fact, uh a broad range
of proximate mechanisms uh whose uh function uh are
sometimes more or less but are uh clear from
an evolutionary point of view. Uh And which can
be uh which can be three. Yeah. Uh You
had the specific uh um idea uh specific things
in mind when you talked about proximate mechanisms or
uh no, not necessarily. I mean, in terms of
the proximate mechanisms, one of the things that came
to mind was basically tin bes for questions where
two of them are basically about the ultimate explanations
for behind the particular uh trait. In this case,
we're talking about the cognitive slash psychological trait. And
then the other two are about proximate explanations having
to do with development and so on. But uh
I, I guess that you've already answered the question.
So uh I have another thing that I would
like to ask you about that. I also read
about in your work that is imaginary worlds in
fictional stories. So what are imaginary worlds
exactly that uh the first uh the first part
of my phd, the first project that I uh
that I did when I arrived in the Evolution
and Social Recognition Lab at the Ens in Paris.
Uh We have worked with NMA on imaginary worlds
and we uh we define uh imaginary worlds as
the uh the settings, the kind of settings in
feature stories uh that are different uh from the
real world, from real environments that we know in
the real world. So you can think of uh
the red line uh in one piece, for instance,
uh you can think of uh in the Harry
Potter, you can think of the, of the universe
and the universe, universe and all the planets in
star wars uh where there was in Game of
Thrones are there in a lot of anyway, we
have a lot of example of counterpart examples that
are actually really, really successful. That's what's one thing
that I can that, that brought me to this
subject at first is that I realized that all
the fiction that personally I liked first, but also
that seem to be liked uh uh like by
a bunch of people around the world event. Uh
So these are all the first uh world fiction
fiction that are really released in uh in almost
all countries. And what is, what is specific to
all these works is that uh there are places
that don't exist in the real world and that
are perceptually or epistemic different from the real world.
So what key de determine, I think of the
definition that we propose that is about the background
knowledge that is required to understand more broadly the
fiction, the fiction story. So I imagine because imaginary
environment are the fictional environments that the receptions of
the fiction could not have possibly explored in real
life because they actually uh come from the mind
of one individual, which is the creator of the
imaginary world. And actually, it gives also rise to,
to some uh fun culture specific uh culture related
uh uh behaviors and motivations. For instance, you can
think of how fans uh uh like uh and
uh uh Android uh faking fandoms that is online,
uh you know, online encyclopedias about the worlds which
are highly structured with a lot of information. And
uh that's something really uh interesting from a psychological
point of view, I think.
No. Yeah, that, that's, that's right. I'm aware of
some of those online fandoms. And by the way,
let me just tell the audience that I if
you're not familiar with one piece, you should become
familiar with it because actually, it's the second most
sold uh comic in the history, be just behind
Superman. It's already past the 500 million volume sold.
So you should definitely get into it before it's
too late. So, but, but I guess we might
come back to one piece later. So
if you think of uh we, we talked about
social just tosis, we talked about social functions before.
That makes me think about the one thing that
uh I like to, to, to think about, about
the social function of fiction is the opportunity, costs
of not consuming something that is really spread out
there. I think of some friends who didn't watch
Game of Thrones and while the episodes were, were
released, they were really uh they felt left out
actually and there is really a cost of not
being interested. Uh I think uh in a, in
a, in popular fiction because you miss soun good
opportunities to bond actually. So funny how we, we,
we kind of recommend it because it is popular.
Yeah.
Right. But do we have any idea where this
fascination for imaginary worlds come from? I, I mean,
I guess that in a sense part of the
answer is already there in what you said, the
social bonding and so on. But, uh I mean,
at first sight, it seems a bit weird because
we're talking about nonexisting things that are many times
probably not relevant at all to how we live
our lives, to our real world. So, where does
it come from?
Yeah, exactly. First of all, I think the social
functions are relevant just to explain how we use
fictions when we have uh consume them and like
them and enjoy the, enjoy, consuming them. But I
don't think it explains the pleasure we have from
uh consuming them. I think it's uh it's like
a, a thing you can do after af after
what uh I think we need uh psychological uh
specific psychological explanations of each of the, of the,
of the features in fiction that we uh that
we find attractive. And in fact, this is what
we worked on with Nicola in two papers in
11 theoretical and one more. Uh And we propose
that imaginary words are appealing because they meet the
input conditions uh of our community disposition geared toward
exploration um just as uh uh romances and tragedies,
for instance, meet the input conditions of preference for
love or, or enjoyment of competition. And here I
build on a 1st, 1st and cultural attraction theory
by Dance Barber, but also of one paper that
I consider uh really uh important like kind of
seminar in this field, which is Daniel Net's paper
uh in 2004, The Wheel of Fire and the
M line. Um So we uh which, which is
about linking uh the appeal of some specific features
in fiction and psychological dispositions and all. But this
is the author that imaginary world. Uh Our, our
appeal for imaginary world rely on our exploratory is
driving us to motivating us to explore uh new
environments in the real world. And in fact, this
is a, this comes from uh intuitions from the,
from some creators of uh imaginary war themselves. I
like to quote uh Tolkien first who wrote uh
in a, in a letter uh that part of
the attraction of Lord of the Rings relies on
the, on the same feeling you get when you're
viewing uh far off. Uh I think it's the
towers of a, of a distant city. So you,
you, you want to explore it since you see
the towers, you want to explore it. And um
and she uh and uh uh Shigeru Miyamoto, uh
the creator of Zelda who said he wanted to
create a game world that conveyed the same feeling
you get when you arrive in a new city
for the first time. So both captured the same
intuition that I think is really relevant here, which
is about you want to explore the world, you
want to, to know what, what is going on,
uh how uh how it is uh organized, what
are the, the opportunities uh in this uh environment
style. So, um our, our hypothesis uh which relies
on these intuitions and uh uh is equivalent to
things that imaginary words are constitute AAA super stimulus
of explorative real world environments. Or that uh to
take uh again, span terms uh that imaginary worlds
are part of the actual domain uh of the
cognitive mechanism that evaluates the learning opportunities uh in,
in uh in landscapes inin uh environments as opposed
to the proper domain, which is about the, the,
the, the, which co, which is consti constituted of
uh the, the real stimuli that uh that uh
triggers this mechanism. So here cues of uh real
world uh exp environments.
Mhm. Uh So, I would imagine then that when
it comes to these exploratory preferences, there would be
inter individual differences in them, right? I mean, there
are probably people that are more prone to exploratory
behavior than others.
Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um The all the
all differences uh in people's preferences and uh behaviors
uh I think is a matter of uh trade
off uh that a re dealt with differently at
the level of the individual according to many factors,
in fact. So it's, this is a hard question.
Uh The one that we try to iate of
course, but uh difficult. Uh So here's the relevant
trade off, the most relevant trade off on the
as a, as even a name, which is the
exploration exploitation head off. So it means why and
where uh should organisms uh decide to explore or
not to explore that is to exploit because lots
of, lots of animals have exploratory preferences uh have
to go beyond uh what they know uh have
to go in into unknown territories. So, in our
paper, we argue that uh that sources of adaptive
variability, explain the differences in people's motivation to explore
uh the real world. And therefore, imaginary worlds. And
we therefore predict that exploratory preferences and the preference
for imaginary world would, could vary uh simply. And
uh we actually provided evidence uh for that in
uh two studies uh with correlations between measures of
curiosity or openness or, or facets of openness and
the robotic preference for uh fictional studies set uh
set me worlds uh those that develop a full,
full, I imagine. Uh But we also predict that
um factors of attraction that explain uh the viability
in explanatory preferences in the real world uh should
explain the preference for imaginary ones. And she often
understand that uh uh there seem to be a
universal and adaptive uh source availability uh in development.
Uh There is evidence evidence from uh there is
evidence from uh experimental on developmental psychology that shows
that uh Children uh explore more than adults in
a lot of tasks and uh other kind of
measurements. Um And this is consistent with evolutionary theory
which proposes that this is a big exploration is
more to Children because it's uh Children have more
to, to learn from the world. And uh there
is another reason uh according to me, uh which
is that humans uh in humans, like in many
animals and uh and many, especially mammals that is
parental investment. Uh MEANING that uh parents transfer resources
to Children and therefore Children can afford to explore
without even if they, if they, if they don't
find, if they don't discover anything valuable right now.
They can afford to lose some resources or time
because they have transferred from the pound. So we
can afford to, to explore more because uh because
we have uh we have, we have a species
with po and investment. Um And I think this
can expand, for instance, uh why we see many
uh fictional stories for Children uh set uh in
uh in such imaginary worlds such as uh you
can think of uh Wonderland in Alice, in Wonderland
of Neverland, in Peter Po uh of Coco uh
up. Uh I don't know how you um un
world. I know all the Disney movies, but almost
all Disney movies are, are set in a, in
a world that is different from the real world.
And it's really a uh striking and um we
also talk about all other sources of availability in
uh in the, in the preference for imaginable. And
uh we can consider understand also the ecology. So
in humans and much like in other animals, you
have uh a variability in the preference for exploration
uh that is explained by the environment because this
mechanism is very plastic. Uh MEANING that uh organisms
uh have evolved in a way to calibrate this
uh preference for exploration uh open city to explore
uh two characteristics of the environments. Uh Notably, environments,
exploration is very risky because if you don't find
uh anything, you, you, you lose uh what you
have not found you, you, you, you describe those
things. So it's risky and it's costly because when
you are doing that, you're not doing, you're not
expecting your resources uh that you, that, that you
can export. So when you delay the collection of
a resource to go, to go explore, you lose
the benefits of uh that you would have generated
if you were expecting. So this is the opportunity
cost. Um So with this uh or rationale, uh
we, we explain uh the uh why uh we
try to propose an explanation as to why imaginary
worlds are increasing in modern societies. They are increasing,
I think in number uh as a share of
literary works or movies that are set in imaginary
worlds uh increase relative to the whole production. But
they also seem to increase in uh in size
or depth or complexity, let's say, as they include
more and more information that follows to, to better
grasp uh the world itself. Um And we are
actually working on a project uh that tries to,
to, to just that, that is the evolution, the
evolution of the size of worlds, for instance, from
islands to continents, to planets, to entire universes. You
know, you know, we have uh we have uh
universes with a bunch of planets and makes me
think of uh no man sky, the video games
where you have uh even uh computer generated uh
uh computationally uh computationally generated planets which uh see
the in uh as you, as you explore, so
you get to, to explore an infinite universe. Uh
No, no. And, and I guess that also very
much manifests in like for example, a song of
ice and fire and one piece, I mean, these
are massive worlds, even if it's just one planet,
it's really massive and extremely detailed. But uh I
mean, when it comes to that, do you already
have any uh hypothesis on the table to potentially
explain why there's been that expansion in terms of
the number of imaginary worlds we have now in
our culture and so on.
Uh Yeah, it's um the explanation, the explanation would
be that since this mechanism is plastic to uh
resource availability, if you have more resources available around
you, you uh you can afford to be more
expressive because uh you, you're riskless and you have
more benefits. Also, you have more benefits because the
information you get from exploration is actually variable in
the future. So you need a long time reason
to, to think that it's valuable to explore. You
need to think that the information you will get
will be uh valuable for a long time. So
your time reason kind of immediate uh the the
the kind of uh determinate the importance that you,
the values that you, that you, that you get,
that you, that you think is uh uh the
information. Uh So basically because of all that um
um you can uh explain uh the uh emergence
and uh rise of I imagine I want with
the increase in uh in resources in uh modern
societies, I uh you can get proxy which is
just an approximation of some other measures that would
be also relevant to explain how people feel safe
about the amount of resources that they, that they
have in their environments. But one proxy which is
more simple to measure is GDP, uh which uh
rise in every modern uh developed uh industrialized societies,
which are the societies in which you have a
lot of images that are being created and more
and more of them. Um So uh the expansion
that we, that we uh that we propose with
Nicola Boar is that uh the, the change, the
changes in uh the ecology in our ecology which
are really manifest in the last uh decades or
centuries. Um Can you explain the changes in uh
the, the popularity of imaginary worlds? Mhm
No. Yeah. It, it makes sense and I have
a couple of follow up questions to, well, uh
all of what you just said there. So uh
I would imagine, I, I hope this is a
fair question because I'm not sure if you are
very much into uh personality psychology or not. But
since we're talking about uh an, an individual trait
here, uh I just wanted to ask you this.
So, uh do you have any idea if a
preference for exploratory behavior would correlate with particular personality
traits. Like, for example, in the big five openness
to experience or extroversion. For example, do you have
any idea about that? Yeah,
we actually, in, uh, in our uh empirical paper,
we tested that specifically. We, uh uh we tested
that both with uh um uh big data set
of, uh, of, of personality traits that are associated
with specific movies. Like you, you had a data
set that was released with 3.5 million people who
liked some movies on the internet, on Facebook and
uh their traits. And uh and we, we have
a negre data set of this and we could
uh we use the random algorithm to detect which
of these movies are set in an imaginary world.
So we try to add to, to, to, to
specify which uh which to find, to select which
movies are actually uh set in such a world.
And we did correlation and we found that we
had predicted and found that uh uh people who
enjoy this world are higher in openness to experiments,
which is as you as, as you, as you
predict, you know, and which is a measure of
uh which can be sort of as a measure
of curiosity of an levels of curs and it's
actually uh negatively correlated with extraversion. So this is
another something that we didn't expect, but we, that
we didn't predict, we just wanted to look at
the, at the at the openness trade, which uh
I think the most relevant here. And uh we
found we, we, we replicated that with an experiment
as a correlation with uh with um people uh
who were being asked to do five. And uh
we uh they had to report their own preference
for uh fiction, fictional stories in uh images and
we found the same correlation. So, yeah, uh I'm
really interested in this uh in, in, in the
associations between certain uh d five traits. Let's say
you, let's say personality trades, but we talk, we
talk about the big five here and uh and
the the liking and the enjoyment of the specific
fiction, fictional stories. And I think it's really, really
important to, to, to do that, to try to,
to, to better understand the fictional stories. We need
to understand why some people like them, but some
people don't actually.
Yeah. And I guess that in terms of let's
say real life behavior in industrialized and post industrial
societies, apart from people that score higher in exploratory
behavior, being more prone to liking this sort of
uh fiction that would also in terms of the
real life behavior. These would also be people that
for example, would also like to travel more live
in different places, experience or try different kinds of
food and different kinds of things out there. Right.
Exactly. You, this is exactly the kind of prediction
that we we would make in fact, the whole
cluster of behaviors that are associated with open two
experiments would be, should be associated with the construction
of imaginary words. So we have uh we, we,
we are, we could make all the prediction that
you have just made and uh try to test
them one after the other with the uh the
limit of the uh the risk uh that uh
we might expect that the consumption of the imaginary
world. Uh uh IT could be uh could, could
replace some other activities that uh that, that people
had in openness to experience uh would have uh
performed before. Uh THEY were uh imaginary was in
the, in the landscape. Uh I, I talk here
of a kind of substitution effect where uh people
who would be uh high in expression uh would
uh uh should read for instance, uh uh travel
literature or uh or historical or novels or, but
in fact, if there is something that uh like
imaginary words will charge super stimuli of, of this,
we should expect that in fact, I should uh
stop consuming that for, for imaginary words. So we,
this is where it's begin, it's beginning to be
tricky to make prediction because we, we uh we,
we still expect people who, who like imaginary words
to travel more, but they should travel less if
they consume more imaginary words, you know, you know
what I mean?
No. Yeah. So, so in that particular case, if
you're right. Then some people, at least after they
start reading a Game of Thrones would prefer that
to, then just historical novels or even history books
because probably the Life of Daenerys Targaryen is more
interesting then. Char May. No.
Exactly. And uh and our, our, our time is
limited. It's a budget. That's uh it's uh it's
the whole thing behind the trade offs and we
have limited budget of time. So uh we need
to allocate the time uh in the, in the
manners that we find the, the more relevant. And
here the is, is uh I think uh uh
a good uh exa mples of the supers stim.
So uh I, I mean, these inter individual differences
would then also explain according to your hypothesis why
certain people love, for example, in terms of genres,
uh fantasy stories and science fiction and other people,
not that much, right?
In terms of uh genre mean of the gens
of people.
Uh No, the genres, the fictional genres out there.
I mean, I was referring here to specifically fantasy
stories and science fiction.
So, yeah, but science fiction and 20 yeah, are,
are the kind of works where there, there are
uh uh I imagine I want uh I think
of uh actually, I think of genres are as
um as the four categories like categories that people
make because uh it's, it's efficient to, to navigate
uh book uh bookstores and uh and streaming platforms.
It's uh categories that are really uh useful. Um
And I do think that the, the, we, we
predict the same uh individual chances in the preference
for specific features and the preference for where these
features are predominant. Um So we just to make
it clear, uh I uh in the, in the
paper uh that I've been refering to a t
the beginning of our discussion, the papers, a t
least many medic mechanisms and many features of fiction
that a re associated to them. We record such
uh features in fiction that tap into specific cognitive
mechanism, ingredients and uh it's kind of a metaphor.
Uh I and I prefer to stay at this
level of analysis of ingredients of uh of, of
specific features that are uh that are that trigger
psychological mechanisms and not uh to broad. Uh And
again, we choose this energy because it's here, it's
a good energy I think because to understand which
recipes people enjoy uh in prisoner, you'd better understand
which ingredients they like and why and not the
whole recipe. Because you, you, you, you lose some
information. For instance, I like to take some example
in movies. For instance, if you think of uh
why people like Harry Potter, if you take the
information, that is just a fantastic book, uh You,
you lose a lot of uh information about other
ingredients. Uh Notably one major ingredients I think is
the investigation that is uh uh developed in all
the books, the first book is even uh kind
of good on it. Uh You, you have to
know who it is but uh but that is
never cat as a uh detective book or detective
movie and you lose a lot of information while
not uh trying to, to disentangle all the specific
parts in this fiction that are uh activating uh
many, many uh psychological preferences. So that's uh the
kind of uh uh I think uh the, the
research I'm trying to, to do the research projects,
I'm trying to develop uh he's uh a kind
of uh I should uh is a kind of
uh reputation of jobs as a, as a category
that is useful in research, at least because we
lose too much information.
Yeah. Mhm No, no, I, I get it, I
get it. But with that framework in mind, when
it comes to specific features or specific cognitive mechanisms
that would play a role in uh evaluating different
kinds of stories, do you think that you would
be able to have a better understanding of why?
For example, according to the features of the stories,
certain people would tend to prefer, let's say love
stories and others, horror stories and so on.
Yeah, I think so. Uh I think we, we
would have to. So there is a whole um
research program that, that, that, that should be shared
with this framework and with this idea, uh which
is, which is which has already started and we
would just uh try to, to bring together this
framework. But uh people, again, people at the rec
and are already working on uh uh differences in
the performance for or for instance. Um AND there
a re a lot of papers being uh released
uh like every week or every month about that.
Uh But this is the idea, uh uh the
idea is that if you better understand uh the
specific ingredients, you uh and amount of their importance
in a, in a set, in a given story,
you can uh better uh understand why uh who
you, who would like this, this fictional story and
why. And um this is where you need a
good operationalization of each ingredient. You need to be
able to, to measure them in a uh in
a quantitative way. And this is where we try
to propose methods to do that uh with Valentine
to Colma. So my, my collaborators at the moment
of all these projects where we try to propose
um ways to uh measure ingredients infection. Uh So
as to be able to list all uh the,
the ingredients that are uh important in a, in
a given fiction and try to make predictions based
on that. That's right. Mhm
No, no, I, I get it. I get it.
I understand that uh the way we use, we
use genres or classify different fictional stories in terms
of genres. I mean, it, they are very broad
and many times ambiguous categories that might include many
different uh features that might apply in the story
and not in other. And for example, you might
have a, a crime story that also includes love
elements and horror, horror elements. And I mean, any
other kind of uh let's say, mix of ingredients,
right?
Um It's kind of the uh the same uh
uh the same. Uh HOW do you say a
step that um that uh that we did the
personality researchers when the, the the they went from
a category categorical perspective, trying to put people in
boxes, you, you uh to uh to a to
two dimensional approach where you instead, you, you, you,
you associate with each individual, multiple dimension and therefore
you have a, you have an in it uh
not an engine but uh uh very, very, very
broad combination of different traits. And here we, I
think it's a good uh comparison. We try to,
to go from uh genres which are categories in
which you put with this to uh a lot
of dimensions. Uh Ingredients are each, each ingredient is
a dimension where people score high or low. And
you can therefore have a prac particularly infinite combination
of ingredients, which is really more subtle and uh
I think more uh uh will be more predictive
and more interesting uh to study. Yeah.
Uh Yeah. And I guess that also when it
comes to the structure of um, personality traits then
it's not only the trait but you also have
the facet and so on, like, in the big
five, I mean, two facets for each trait and
so on and so forth. I mean, you can
break it down into, uh, a finer or, uh,
I mean, into, uh, finer details.
Right. Yeah, exactly. That would be, we could really,
uh, go, that's the, that's the direction and, uh,
I hope that it will uh it will get
some of his rules and uh and that we
can continue in this direction, but I'm really hopeful
about this direction.
Mhm So we've talked here a lot about inter
individual differences. What about cross-cultural differences? Are you also
interested in that? And are there lots of cross
cultural differences that we know of in terms of
uh fiction, fiction preferences and so on?
Yeah, there are, there are cross cultural differences, cross
differences. And we started to tackle uh that when
we talked about uh a viability in the preferences
of specific fictional features uh according to local ecologies,
uh behavioral ecology is about uh trying to find
uh how changes in uh in uh in ecological
factors uh explain uh changes in behaviors. So, of
course, there is a uh one kind of uh
explanation. Uh And if in fact, before I started
uh uh to work in community science, I used
to believe that cross cultural differences were due to
a combination of uh uh slightly different starting points
and a kind of past dependence due to our
our evolution through social transmission and uh small small
changes. But I think this explanation, in fact, uh
I've come to learn that doesn't explain why within
the same country and within sometimes the same group
of people from the same country, from the same
city, you also find variations that are often comparable
to those between countries and cultures. So this isn't
uh this doesn't seem to fit the, the, the
data at the individual level. So I think we
need to, to, to, to acknowledge the, the correspondence
between an individual differences and cross uh cross country
differences. And so now, I believe that in fact,
such uh cross cultural differences can mostly be explained
by differences in ecological conditions being be it uh
resource availability. Uh I don't know, climate or pathogen
uh prevalence or, or sex ratio, you have a
lot of things that uh that, that vary between
countries actually and that, that we know have a
causal effect on our psychology. So I think by
acknowledging this past, you can at the end uh
following a framework at the end, uh try to
understand why there are differences between countries in what
uh in what they they enjoy as fiction stories
and what they produce. Uh So I think this
is the direction that uh that I would uh
that I try to, to investigate uh in my
uh in my project, uh not beyond iag worlds
uh that the cost of society differences in the
preference for such fiction can in fact be explained
by differences in uh ecological factors.
Mhm. Uh And those ecological factors would play a
role in the specific content as well. That is
part of the fictional stories, right? I mean, per
perhaps there are certain features of the particular ecology
that people live in that would also manifest in
the content of their own uh fictional stories,
right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um Here, I meant
to imagine I want in the, in the strict
sense that means uh uh the setting of the
world that is uh that is different from the
real world. But uh yeah, uh there are a
lot of uh as I said, uh we use
the term ingredients, there are a lot of different
ingredients in different stories uh When you consider cross
cultural patterns and uh and people can enjoy uh
all stories for very different reasons. And therefore you
need to understand the how eco ecological characteristics influence
each uh psychological mechanisms that might be uh uh
responsible for uh the lacking of each specific intelligence.
So it's becoming to be uh uh in uh
in our collaborative paper, the one I mentioned at
the beginning and then a bit later, uh we,
we try to, to, to associate each uh mechanism
with, with uh some uh um uh some, some
sources of addictive variability that have been demonstrated in
the literature or, or proposed at least. And uh
therefore, it makes a lot of prediction about what
kind of ingredients are like in which ecologies. And
this is, this is a research program that uh
I think which we, we, we should uh we
should continue to, to validate this remark. Mhm
OK. So uh I have one final question and
actually this is probably the most important question of
our interview here today. So who is the better
character? Sanji or Zuru?
I was beginning to be stressed about the beginning
of the question. And the um now
you, you know that this is the most debated
question among the one community.
So I think you can actually uh try to
propose a, we can actually try to propose an
answer according to the anti differences in personality of,
of uh of fans that, that they will not
like the same characters because they have not the
same uh preference for some specific characteristics of people
they like to cooper with. And we could uh
we could list all the mechanisms that are related
to uh people evaluation like uh pro force analysis,
uh competent, etcetera and try to find which uh
which corresponds to which this is a really good
research program, right?
00 OK. But I, I do, I want an
answer here, send your or come on.
Uh I uh prefer Z
Yeah, I, I'm on your side. So I guess,
I guess now I can say that I have
uh academic support to my preference. Ok. So Edgar
look, uh, just before we go, would you like
to tell people where they can find you and
your work on the internet? Uh
Yes. Um, WELL, I have a website, uh which
is uh uh www dot Edgar Jor. Uh So
my first name, last name, uh or you can
find me on Twitter and I have all the,
all my publications on my website. So I think
that's it. Uh Yeah.
Ok, great. So I'm leaving links to it in
to that in the description box of the interview.
And thank you so much again for taking the
time to come on the show. It's been a
real fun conversation and I hope to have you
back on the show when you finish your phd.
So
it was a great pleasure and uh we can
come back to this uh debate to the last
debate.
Hi guys. Thank you for watching this interview. Until
the end. If you liked it, please share it.
Leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by N Lights Learning
and development. Then differently check the website at N
lights.com. And also please consider supporting the show on
Patreon or paypal. I would also like to give
a huge thank you to my main patrons and
paypal supporters, Perera Larson, Jerry Muller and Frederick Suno,
Bernard Seche O of Alex Adam Castle Matthew Whitting
B no wolf, Tim Ho Erica LJ Connors Philip
Forrest Connolly. Then the Met Robert Wine in NAI
Z Mark Nevs calling in Holbrook Field, Governor Mikel
Stormer Samuel Andre Francis for Agns Ferger Ken Herz
J and Lain Jung Y and the K Hes
Mark Smith J. Tom Hummel S friends, David Sloan
Wilson, Yasa, dear Roman Roach Diego and Jan Punter
Romani Charlotte Bli Nicole Barba, Adam Hunt Pavlo Stass,
Nale Me, Gary G Alman Sam of Zaypj Barboza,
Julian Price Edward Hall, Eden Broner Douglas Fry Franca,
Bela Gil Cortez or Solis Scott Zachary. Ftw Daniel
Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Giorgino, Luke Loki, Georgio Theophano,
Chris Williams and Peter Wo David Williams Di Costa
Anton Erickson Charles Murray, Alex Chao, Marie Martinez, Coralie
Chevalier, Bangalore Fist, Larry Dey Junior, Old Eon Starry
Michael Bailey. Then Spur by Robert Grassy Zorn. Jeff
mcmahon, Jake Zul Barnabas Radis Mark Temple, Thomas Dvor
Luke Neeson, Chris Tory Kimberley Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert Jessica.
No, Linda Brendan, Nicholas Carlson, Ismael Bensley Man, George
Katis Valentine Steinman, Perlis, Kate Van Goler, Alexander Abert
Liam Dan Biar Masoud Ali Mohammadi Perpendicular, Janner Urla.
Good enough, Gregory Hastings David Pins of Sean Nelson,
Mike Levin and Jos Net. A special thanks to
my producers is our web, Jim Frank Luca Toni,
Tom Vig and Bernard N Cortes Dixon Bendik Muller
Thomas Trumble, Catherine and Patrick Tobin John Carlman, Negro,
Nick Ortiz and Nick Golden. And to my executive
producers. Matthew lavender. Si Adrian Bogdan knits and Rosie.
Thank you for all.